[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Dr. Linda Backman back
with us, a psychologist
and regression therapist.
She's been in practice
for 45 years and in 1997
founded the Mystery School,
The Ravenheart Center.
She has a new book out
called Soul Design.
Welcome back.
Linda.
It's always a
pleasure seeing you.
>>LINDA BACKMAN: Thank you,
George It's good to be here.
>>NOORY: How did you go
from a PhD in psychology
to past life regressionist?
>>BACKMAN: Yes, that's
a great question.
I had a colleague die in
1993, a very close colleague.
And I wasn't into any of
this soul level regression
kind of work.
He started talking to me
from the other side, which
was completely
surprising to me, and he
began to show me
scenes of past lives
intuitively in my mind's eye.
And it was like, now
what do I do with this?
>>NOORY: So he started
you on this journey.
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
And I learned over the
course of many years
that he and I had shared
many lives together,
and that there was a
reason why his passing was
an opportunity for me,
and not that-- obviously,
his passing was
horribly difficult
for his family and friends.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BACKMAN: But it was an
opportunity for me to decide,
was I brave enough back then to
change the direction of my work?
>>NOORY: Why do we reincarnate
in the first place, Linda?
>>BACKMAN: That's
a simple answer,
which is an important
one, to grow and evolve,
to learn and gain wisdom
and gain a broader
perspective and way of life.
>>NOORY: I always thought
when I was younger
that regression and
reincarnation dealt
with getting closer to heaven.
The more you died,
the better you
got until you got to
that heavenly point.
How close was I to being right?
>>BACKMAN: In many ways,
close, because the more lives
we have and the free
will choices that we make
relate to are we
evolving quickly
through one lifetime
or five lifetimes,
or are we dragging our feet
based on our free will choices?
>>NOORY: Tell us about
Soul Design, the new book.
>>BACKMAN: Yeah, Soul Design
is kind of fun in a way.
The notion of Soul
Design was, I'm sure,
dropped into my brain,
George, through my own guides.
And so Soul Design is,
who are we as a soul?
What are our past lives?
How does that
contribute to our soul?
Where are we in our
soul's evolution?
Where do we come from?
What's our specific origin that
relates to our soul design?
There are three types of
souls that come to Earth.
And what's our purpose?
What are we working
on in current life?
How does all that fit together?
That's Soul Design.
>>NOORY: Are we comprised of
these three different kinds
of souls or just one?
>>BACKMAN: We are
one type of soul.
Humanity is comprised of three
different types of souls,
but each of us is
a type of soul,
and that's an immortal soul
type, an immortal soul quality
and where we come from.
>>NOORY: What determines
what soul we get?
>>BACKMAN: It's kind of funny.
I often say to people, or
periodically say to people,
certain things can be above our
pay grade or above my pay grade.
I think that's determined
at a higher level.
I think that's
determined at what we
might call the level of source.
Are we an Earth-based
soul or are
we one of the two other types?
>>NOORY: Soul essence
psychology is what?
>>BACKMAN: So soul essence
is related to soul design.
Our soul has an essence.
What's the immortal
nature of our soul?
What have we learned so far?
And soul essence
psychology is a term
that came to me to be used in
a more formal psychological way
to understand we have, each
of us, a particular soul
essence based on
our soul experience.
>>NOORY: Are we all designed
for Earth-bound life?
>>BACKMAN: We are not all
designed for Earth-bound.
>>NOORY: We are not.
>>BACKMAN: Correct.
So some of us as souls, I'm an
example of an Earth-based soul.
And sometimes people think
I'm saying Earth-bound soul.
That's a different
spiritual term.
An Earth-based soul is designed
to primarily incarnate on Earth.
There are two other types of
souls that may come to Earth
but aren't designed
primarily to--
they don't originate in
the frequency of Earth
and aren't designed
necessarily to come to Earth.
>>NOORY: Would that be
an interplanetary soul?
>>BACKMAN: One of those
is an interplanetary soul.
>>NOORY: And what's the other?
>>BACKMAN: The other is
an angelic soul, or what
I call an angelic realm soul.
>>NOORY: Do we
get a pick at all?
>>BACKMAN: My guess is no.
My hunch is no.
We don't pick.
There's a higher
wisdom that picks,
what does the universe need
and what does humanity need?
>>NOORY: Well, we hear
a lot about source.
To me, that's God.
What about you?
>>BACKMAN: I say to
people, choose the term
you're comfortable with.
Source, God, great spirit.
There's an Eastern
term, the Manu, which--
so we're talking about a
guidance system, a group wisdom.
But yes, God and source
can be synonymous terms.
>>NOORY: Now the interplanetary
soul is created by what?
What puts that together?
>>BACKMAN: The interplanetary
soul is created outside of Earth
as a soul that primarily
grows and evolves
somewhere other than Earth,
a planet, a star system,
inter-dimensional space.
There are spacecraft.
I have worked with many
clients that spontaneously
find themselves during the
regression on a spacecraft.
They can describe their role.
They can describe the
actual interior structure
of the spacecraft.
>>NOORY: Now, the angelic
souls would be what?
>>BACKMAN: The angelic
souls serve source directly.
An angelic soul is
part of the realm
that we would say serves
God, serves the divine,
whatever term we want to use.
There's a-- I like to
call it a cadre of souls.
There's a group of souls that
make up the angelic realm who
are ambassadors of sorts.
And so that means they carry
pure love and compassion energy.
And if they come to Earth, they
bring that wisdom to Earth.
>>NOORY: Is there a true
difference between the three?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
It may relate to--
an Earth-based soul tends to
be more comfortable on Earth
because they've
been here hundreds,
if not 1,000 or more times.
So an Earth-based soul has
familiarity with the human body,
with the--
as an example,
sometimes if I'm working
with an interplanetary
soul in my client
work, interplanetary
souls, I've heard them say,
sometimes I forget to eat.
I start off in the
morning, I eat breakfast,
and then it's eight
o'clock at night
and I forgot to eat because
they're interplanetary
and some interplanetary
souls don't
need to nourish
their bodies the way
we humans nourish our bodies.
An Earth-based soul doesn't
tend to forget to eat.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
Do they interchange at all?
>>BACKMAN: Meaning
can you change?
Can you be-- can you--
>>NOORY: One to the other.
>>BACKMAN: My
understanding is no.
If you're created as one, that
is your immortal soul type.
>>NOORY: Until you die.
>>BACKMAN: Until you
finish your soul's journey.
So if you're an
interplanetary soul,
you're created as an
interplanetary soul.
Your home location
is somewhere outside
of the frequency of Earth.
You may incarnate on Earth.
You may not incarnate on Earth.
So you are basically
immortal and permanent
as an interplanetary soul.
>>NOORY: What is the
goal of every soul,
to reach that heavenly state?
I mean, you've got these three
different kinds of souls.
What's the end game for them?
>>BACKMAN: Yeah.
I mean, again, that's
a great question.
That the end game is--
I often say to my clients,
because my clients
are incarnate on Earth, no
matter which of the three types,
their goal is to advance,
to evolve humanity.
We often think
there's an end game,
like we're going to
reach a place of what
we might call nirvana.
Our soul, at the level
of soul or higher self,
has a role and responsibility
to help coordinate the greater
spiritual realm.
>>NOORY: Is the soul we have
from the moment of conception
or birth?
>>BACKMAN: We are a soul from
the time our soul is conceived.
So we are a soul whether
we're incarnate on Earth
or whether we're not
incarnate on Earth.
>>NOORY: It's out there
in the ether somewhere.
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
So when we incarnate,
we bring a slice,
we bring a holographic
portion of our soul energy
into our body to
be alive on Earth.
The remainder of our soul, no
matter which of the three types
we are, is our higher self.
Our higher self resides in
the greater celestial realm
where we come from as a soul.
>>NOORY: What happens when
we die, physically die?
>>BACKMAN: Yeah.
What happens when
we die is that once
the body, once the
cardiopulmonary functions
ceasefire in our physical body,
our soul energy, that fractal,
that holographic slice of
soul operates on autopilot.
It automatically
steps out of the body.
Many times, if people have been
with a loved one who has just
passed, they can
feel, they can almost
sense the vacancy of
the body once the soul
is out of that body that's
no longer functioning.
That slice of soul basically
elevates from third dimension
through fourth
dimension, returns
back to what we call
fifth dimension,
or the spiritual realm, and back
to where we come from as a soul.
>>NOORY: Is it the soul
that makes up the person
or is it the person
that makes up the soul?
>>BACKMAN: That's a
beautiful question.
The truth is, it's both.
So--
>>NOORY: Combination.
>>BACKMAN: Yeah, it's a
mixture, because as a human,
we have a personality that's
held in our human brain, that's
held in the gray matter
of our human brain.
That's blended with
the type of soul we are
and the experiences
our soul has had.
So we're a blend.
>>NOORY: You did a
regression with a woman
that was quite revealing.
Let's listen to some of it and
then I'll have you explain it.
[AUDIO PLAYBACK]
- So just like this
is a story or a movie.
Let the scene begin to progress.
What happens next?
- There's a coach.
There's a man.
He has a top hat
and a big mustache.
I get into the
carriage with him.
- And what are you
feeling right now?
- Sad.
So sad.
- OK.
And what are you sad about?
- My life has been determined.
- I see.
- And now I am
going away with him.
And I can't fix that.
I can't change it.
I have no--
I have no voice.
- What happens next?
- I'm outside and
I have children,
and they're outside playing.
And I'm watching them
play and I'm so happy.
- How many children do you have?
- Two.
Two boys.
One little blond boy
and one brunette.
- And so let this
scene just play out.
What else happens?
- One of them dies.
It was an accident.
They were just playing.
- They were playing and what
happened when they were playing?
- I think he--
I think he drowned in the water.
He drowned in the water.
- He drowned in the water.
And where is your
other boy right now?
- He's with me.
He's with me.
And I am angry.
- Tell me about the anger.
What are you angry about?
- Everything and everyone,
because they made me come here.
Because I didn't have a voice.
If I had never been here,
this would never happened.
And I have to bury him--
I have to bury him in my yard.
I had to do a grave in my yard.
There was nowhere to go.
- And do you think your
husband is coming back?
- No, he's not coming back.
I'm all alone.
Just me and my boy.
We're close.
We're close, but then I'm angry.
- What do you do?
- And I start drinking.
- You start drinking.
OK.
Tell me more.
- I start drinking.
- You start drinking.
- Because I don't know what
to do and I'm so angry.
- And what happens as
you start drinking?
- It all just gets worse
and worse and worse
and worse and worse.
And soon my boy grows
up and he leaves me
and he doesn't want
to have anything
to do with me because I
was not a good mother.
I was not kind.
I was not available.
I was so sad and angry.
[END PLAYBACK]
Linda, that's an
emotional piece of audio.
>>BACKMAN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: What did we just hear?
>>BACKMAN: So what we heard
is direct regression content.
I never know what's going to
come forward in a regression.
I work with the client
with what comes forward.
And so this is a woman
who's experiencing--
it's a common theme,
I find, George,
that I work with a
fair number of clients
who live during an era of
time where, for some reason,
they had no rights.
There was an era
of time when women
couldn't own land, where women
were told who they would marry.
And so this is showing one of
those themes on our planet.
And so she had no voice.
And rather than
standing up for herself,
she basically let herself
cave in to the trauma
and the lack of power that--
>>NOORY: She acquiesced.
>>BACKMAN: She acquiesced.
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Was she aware of
what she was saying to you?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
Yes.
Clients are aware of what's
happening in the regression.
They're not so tuned out.
Yes, they're relaxed, but they
are aware of what's going on.
What we're seeing is a perfect
example of what we call karma.
So when we come into the
human body, we have free will.
We choose how we behave.
And this is an
example of a client.
She caved in to being angry
about her life circumstances.
And as you heard
from the client,
she was an uncommitted mother,
uncommitted to being a mom.
So she's going through
a horrible trauma
of the accidental death
and passing of her child.
>>NOORY: Did her past life
echo her current life?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
And that's the beauty, in a
way, of how we advance as a soul
and how we can make the
choice to, we might say,
clean up past behavior that
wasn't the most useful behavior.
So as you heard from
her, in the past life,
she becomes so immersed
in her depression
and traumatic feelings
that she begins
to imbibe too much alcoholic
beverage and, again, caves
into her emotions.
Our guides would wish that
we honor our emotions,
acknowledge our
emotions, and not
let them basically
ruin our life.
>>NOORY: What was it like for
you as a therapist, Linda,
to just hear her break
down the way she did?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
I mean, that's something,
George, for me,
I was a conventional
therapist for many years
before I fell into this work.
But when I train
people in regression,
I don't require them to be
a conventional therapist.
I train them to--
the feelings need
to be expressed.
The feelings have to be
owned and overtly cathartic.
And then, rather than
becoming lost in our feelings,
then we need to take steps
to move forward and deal
with our feelings and find
other ways of behaving.
So it's sort of
a 2-step process.
>>NOORY: Did you let the
client hear herself on tape?
>>BACKMAN: Again,
wonderful question.
I record all regressions.
The client receives
the recording.
And I strongly encourage
them to go back and listen
to step by step, what came
forward in the regression?
Because then it benefits
my client's soul evolution.
>>NOORY: I mean, did
she say, that's not me.
That person is breaking
down and crying and sobbing.
>>BACKMAN: Yeah.
She did not say that.
She realizes that what
happened in the past life led
her to become despondent,
again, led her to drink too much
and let her emotions
overtake her.
>>NOORY: So that past life
affected her current life.
>>BACKMAN: And it's directly
related to her current life.
>>NOORY: Now, what made her
come to you in the first place?
>>BACKMAN: What made her
come to me in the first place
is that in current
life, she was dealing
with the death of a child
in her current life.
And I want listeners to know,
this doesn't always happen.
Just because we've had a loss
of a child in a past life,
that does not
automatically mean we're
going to experience
that in current life.
But what this client
regression exhibits
is that sometimes soul
evolution is not always easy.
And when we face
our emotions, when
we face what happened
and then move forward
to accept that we can
continue to evolve and grow,
then we're benefiting from
what happened in the past
and we're benefiting-- we're
benefiting from the revelation
of what happened in the past.
>>NOORY: So what
you're saying is
there are past episodes
contributed to helping
solve her current problems.
>>BACKMAN: Exactly.
Exactly.
>>NOORY: And how does
she become aware of it?
Through you?
>>BACKMAN: Right.
I mean, there are many ways.
Regression is not the only way
to become aware of past lives,
and we can certainly
talk about that.
But learning about
our past lives
helps us to understand what
we need to change and work on
in our present life and
helps us move forward
in our present life.
>>NOORY: The drinking
she did in her past life,
was she drinking in
her current life too?
>>BACKMAN: So yes.
In her current life, she had had
a child die in her current life
and she had resorted
to drinking.
We all have spiritual guides
as well as a higher self.
Her spiritual guides
and her higher self
brought forward this past
life to help her make changes
in her current life.
Following this
regression-- I've continued
to have contact
with this client,
following her regression,
she stopped drinking
and realized it was not the
answer to the emotions she
was experiencing.
>>NOORY: In the past
life, her son died.
He drowned.
It was an accident.
Why did that happen?
>>BACKMAN: I think bottom
line is accidents happen.
In other words, I don't think
his drowning was necessarily
planned at the soul level.
It can be purely an accident,
but it's what do we do about?
How do we cope with
and how do we face?
We all have trauma in our life.
I don't-- if people say to me
they don't have any trauma, I,
in a caring way, say, I think we
all have some degree of trauma,
some more, some less.
It's how we deal with that that
leads to our soul evolution.
>>NOORY: Was the boy careless?
>>BACKMAN: The boy that
drowned in the past life.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BACKMAN: My sense, George,
is that the mom blamed herself.
Whether she was
careless, that did not
surface in the regression,
but she blamed herself
in the past life for
the passing of her son.
And I think that's what led
her to cave in to her emotions.
>>NOORY: In Soul Design, you
talk about the grieving process,
two steps.
What are they?
>>BACKMAN: So I think about
grieving from a human standpoint
and grieving from
a soul standpoint.
So grieving from
a human standpoint
means I feel
miserable, I feel sad,
I miss the person
who has passed.
I wish it hadn't happened.
Coulda, shoulda,
woulda kind of things
that are all normal
aspects of human grief.
The other aspect of grief
is the soul is immortal.
The soul of our child,
the soul of our friend,
the soul of our grandparent,
or whoever, is accessible to us
and remains present even though
their body no longer exists.
And so spiritual
grieving, in my opinion,
needs to sit alongside
human grieving.
>>NOORY: Linda,
what is a soul pod?
>>BACKMAN: So a soul pod means
that when our soul is created,
we belong to a group
of souls, we belong to,
call it a soul
cluster, a soul family.
I like to call it a pod so that
everyone doesn't think, well,
people I know from my soul
pod in my current life are not
necessarily my family members.
So we reincarnate
repetitively more
often with the members
of our soul pod.
And so we have familiar souls,
you might say, in our soul pod.
>>NOORY: Are they different from
those three souls we just talked
about?
>>BACKMAN: Yeah.
Again, that's an
important distinction.
If we're an Earth-based soul,
all the souls on our soul pod
are Earth-based.
If we're interplanetary,
they're all interplanetary.
If we're angelic,
they're all angelic.
We do relate, because
people ask me this a lot.
So, Linda, if I'm
an Earth-based soul
and my child is an
interplanetary soul,
does that mean I won't ever
have a life again with my child?
And the answer is no.
It doesn't mean
you won't ever have
a life again with your child.
>>NOORY: Are there good
souls and bad souls?
>>BACKMAN: There's good
behavior and bad behavior.
But no, I don't think there
are good souls and bad souls.
>>NOORY: Can you fix a soul?
>>BACKMAN: Yes, through
repetitive incarnation.
That's why we keep coming back.
So no matter what our
choices were in past lives,
we can have future lives
and behave differently.
And that, if we want
to use the word fix,
that resolves the
past life karma.
>>NOORY: What does our higher
self mean to you, Linda?
>>BACKMAN: So we all have a
higher self when we're in body.
Linda's higher self
is my soul energy
that I didn't bring
into my human body.
I've been told many
times in regression
that the reason we
don't bring, or one
of the reasons we don't
bring 100% of our soul energy
into our body, is
because it would blow
the circuits of the human body.
>>NOORY: How so?
>>BACKMAN: Because
our soul is energy.
Our soul is pure energy.
Consciousness is energy.
So two reasons we don't
bring all of our soul energy
into our body.
One is what I just said,
that our human body couldn't
manage 100% of our soul energy.
The other, and equally, if not
more probably equally important,
is our higher self
is one of our guides.
Our higher self, our soul
energy in the spiritual realm
serves as one of our
spiritual guides.
>>NOORY: How does
that soul communicate?
>>BACKMAN: Through intuition,
through various ways
of intuition, from dreams
to clairvoyance to emotions
to just what I might
call cognitive download
or just a left brain knowing.
>>NOORY: That intuition,
would that be called somatic?
>>BACKMAN: Sometimes our
intuition is somatic.
>>NOORY: Which would be what?
>>BACKMAN: Which would be
a symptom in your body.
Yeah.
So here's an example that
happened to me some years ago.
For a period of time,
probably more than a
year, I felt like occasionally
there was someone behind me.
There was truly
no one behind me,
but I felt like
there was someone
behind me putting
their hand gently
on my left shoulder blade.
And I would sense
that periodically.
It took me a while
to figure out it
was one of my guides
trying to get my attention.
And once I realized
what the signal was,
what the somatic signal
was, I never felt it again
because I started tuning
into my guide more often.
>>NOORY: How many
guides do we have?
>>BACKMAN: If
you're Earth-based,
you usually have
a team of guides.
If you're interplanetary
or you're angelic,
you often have a guide.
>>NOORY: Is that different
from your guardian angel?
>>BACKMAN: Actually not.
I often use that
term synonymously.
Guardian angel, spiritual
guide, friend and support system
from the spiritual realm,
all the same thing.
>>NOORY: With each
soul type, does
it have a different
guide attached to it?
>>BACKMAN: Yes, and
that's an important piece
that shows up in regression.
If you're an
Earth-based soul, you
tend to have a team of guides.
You have a lead
guide and usually
one or two additional guides.
If you're an interplanetary
or an angelic soul,
often your higher self is
your only and primary guide.
And that's because
interplanetary souls
and angelic souls are always
highly advanced souls.
And of course, I learned
this because these
are souls on Earth.
So the higher self often
guides an interplanetary soul
and an angelic soul.
>>NOORY: There
was a song we used
to sing in Catholic
school called
Angels We Have Heard on High.
Does that tie into something
we're talking about,
in that are these archangels
assisting our souls?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
So I've learned a lot
about the angelic realm.
My new book has a lot of client
material from angelic clients.
So the angelic
realm serves source,
as we have already talked about.
The leaders of the angelic
realm are the archangels.
And so Angels We
Have Heard on High
simply indicates
that these are highly
evolved souls that
serve a high purpose
and work with a high
energy called source.
>>NOORY: What is Earth's
Interplanetary Council.
>>BACKMAN: So there's an
interplanetary council
with representative souls
from various celestial bodies
that are interplanetary souls.
It's almost like-- it's almost
like we think about the United
States House of Representatives,
where each of those members
comes from a different
district or a different state.
So the Interplanetary
Council is made up
of Earth-based souls and
interplanetary souls that
work together to serve humanity,
to aid humanity's evolution.
>>NOORY: Does free will
have a play in this?
>>BACKMAN: Free will always
has a play when we're on Earth.
So when we're in body
on Earth, no matter
what our life plan was, we make
free will choices in regard
to our behavior.
And so that's a unique
quality of coming to Earth,
is that we always
have free will.
>>NOORY: Must we
have a regression
in order to determine
what our past life was?
>>BACKMAN: A lot of
us, myself included,
I gradually learned how to begin
to understand my own past lives
from things like
interests in eras of time,
interests in cultures
of the world,
studying a particular
time in history,
and studying particular figures
during that time in history.
It doesn't necessarily
mean we were those figures,
but it means we had
some connection.
So letting ourself tap into
skills from past lives,
interests from past lives,
relationships from past lives
can surface past life
information without regression.
>>NOORY: Does the way you
conduct your life determine what
your past life might have been?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
The circumstances that
come forward in our life
often relate to people,
experiences, traumas,
learnings from past life.
That is why I created
the notion of Soul Design
so that we understand what's our
makeup beyond just current life?
What are our past lives?
What type of soul are we?
What's the purpose of intention
of our current life that
makes up the design of
our soul in present life?
>>NOORY: How many past
lives can we have, Linda?
>>BACKMAN: My understanding
is we can have hundreds,
if not 1,000 or more past lives.
>>NOORY: Oh my God.
Does that mean that the
person is not evolving
if they have that many?
>>BACKMAN: It can mean that.
If we're not working
on the issues
that our soul and our
guides wish us to work on,
then that means we're going to
come back again and work on it.
But on the other hand,
a more advanced soul
can still keep incarnating
to aid humanity,
and that more advanced soul
may have had many, many lives
to gain a significant amount
of wisdom and perspective.
>>NOORY: Do we carry any of
our wisdoms from our past lives
to our next life?
>>BACKMAN: We always do.
If we allow ourselves
to trust our wisdom,
yes, we're bringing our
learning from past lives
forward into our current life.
>>NOORY: That is
dramatic, isn't it?
>>BACKMAN: Important.
>>NOORY: Do souls incarnate
throughout the universe or just
on good old planet Earth?
>>BACKMAN: Souls
incarnate all over what
I call the celestial
realm, the universe.
There is intelligent life in
places where we don't even know
the names of those locations.
It's not always Pleiades,
Arcturus, Sirius.
It's many, many locations
in the universe.
>>NOORY: What determines
that location?
>>BACKMAN: Who
you are as a soul.
If you're an
interplanetary soul,
you have a home location
somewhere in the universe.
>>NOORY: How much
of our soul energy
do we bring into
our current body?
>>BACKMAN: Usually it depends
on the complexity of our life
contract, but usually
we bring somewhere
from 20% to maybe 35% of our
soul energy into our human body.
>>NOORY: If you're a horrible
person in a past life,
are you going to be a horrible
person in a current life?
>>BACKMAN: Not necessarily.
If you're a horrible person in a
past life, what your guides hope
you'll choose to do
in a subsequent life
is to balance, to not make those
unhealthy, horrible choices.
>>NOORY: Can a soul
end up as a soul
of an animal or an
extraterrestrial,
or something else?
>>BACKMAN: So certain animals--
it's a complicated answer.
My understanding
from regression,
from multiple, multiple
regressions I've guided,
the soul of cetaceans, the soul
of dolphins, whales, porpoises,
that intelligent water mammal, I
have worked with clients that, I
think, in fact, were in the
past the soul of a cetacean.
But typically no.
The soul of a horse, the soul
of a cat, the soul of a dog
is a soul, but not
the type of soul that
incarnates in the human body.
>>NOORY: The Bible
looks at suicide
as something bad,
something evil.
How do you look at it?
>>BACKMAN: Well, I
can tell you what
I've learned from
regression, and that
is that suicide is almost a
case by case circumstance.
Sometimes I work with a
client who, in the regression,
goes to a past life where
they took their life.
They ended their life in the
past life through suicide.
There are times when
that past life is over
and then I'm working with
the client at the soul level
that the guides
say, we would have
preferred you hadn't taken
your life in that past life.
We want you to make different
choices in current life.
But there are other
times, George,
when the choice of
suicide is completely
understood by the
client's guides,
and that the guides realize
there were some very
extenuating circumstances.
The bottom line, what I want
to be sure listeners hear,
is that suicide is not a
permanent negative black mark,
permanent, horrendous
choice that that soul made.
That that soul can balance
that in future lives.
>>NOORY: Why can
they balance it,
and why is it not looked
at as something bad?
>>BACKMAN: Because
there are times
when life circumstances are
so complex and stressful
that the spiritual
realm, to a degree,
accepts the choice of suicide.
They would simply
prefer that maybe there
was another alternative.
But it's not like an
unresolvable action
that the person makes.
>>NOORY: I keep thinking
of Robin Williams.
Great actor, great comedian.
Took his own life because he had
internal demons within himself.
He could not cope
with it anymore.
Might he have killed
himself in a past life?
>>BACKMAN: He might
have, but I think
it's also-- yes, I think
that's totally possible.
And perhaps there are cases
where we repeat suicide
in more than one
life and then guides
would encourage us in the
future to not do that again.
But I have heard many
times in regression,
using Robin Williams
as an example,
that the level of stress, the
level of trauma that someone
is going through leads
to spiritual guides
understanding why the
decision of suicide was made
and it's not a horrific, again,
unresolvable resolvable issue
that can't be balanced.
>>NOORY: Do we determine, Linda,
what of those three past souls
we are or were?
Do we make up our
own minds about that?
>>BACKMAN: No, I think
that's determined,
George, at a higher level.
It's determined when
our soul is conceived.
But we don't make that choice.
Because when that determination
of which type of soul we are
is made, we are not yet
evolved to the point as a soul
that we're able to
make that decision.
>>NOORY: Who steps in
and says, this soul
is going to take this direction.
>>BACKMAN: Yeah, good question.
Source, a higher
perspective, a higher wisdom.
The universe has a
system of coordination
that does not necessarily fit
with a particular religion,
but does fit with the
notion of God, source.
So a higher wisdom
is encouraging
our universe, and specifically
humanity, to grow and evolve.
>>NOORY: Some people that are
born with gifts, musically
inclined, professionally
sports inclined, they've just
got these innate abilities that
parents say, where did this
come from?
Where does it come from?
>>BACKMAN: Sometimes past lives.
Sometimes skills, an artistic
skill, for example, someone--
I can think of people
I've worked with who
have phenomenal artistic skill.
They may not make
their living using it,
but we often then tap
into their past lives
and discover they were capably
artistic in a past life.
>>NOORY: Is there a committee
of souls that determines
what soul goes into what body?
>>BACKMAN: Yes, that's
determined by spiritual guides.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BACKMAN: That's determined
by the more evolved
we are as a soul, the more
we contribute to that plan.
>>NOORY: What
happened to free will?
>>BACKMAN: Well, that's
a piece of free will.
In other words, when
we're planning a life
before a life begins, we
basically sit down and almost--
think about it in a
human way at a conference
table with our guides.
And the more evolved
we are as a soul,
our guides may say, OK,
George, OK, Linda, you're
going to incarnate again.
So we're planning your
upcoming incarnation.
What do you want to work on?
What do you think needs to
be balanced from the past?
How do you want to
assist humanity?
What do you want
your life to look at?
And so it's a conferencing.
It's a discussion and decision
making jointly with our guides.
>>NOORY: Archangels and the
higher authority of an archangel
comes from where?
>>BACKMAN: It comes from
source, comes from the divine,
comes from God.
And I have come across--
maybe this will be helpful.
Many times in regression
I'm seeking to understand,
so what is the divine?
What does source mean?
My understanding at this point,
from repetitive regressions,
is that source is a group of--
it's a group soul of more than
one soul that is highly evolved,
that seeks source that
guides humanity, that
seeks to guide our
human world to higher
levels of appropriate
behavior, evolution, equality
of all people, equal
treatment of animals, plants.
So source is a group soul
based on my understanding.
>>NOORY: And how does
an individual determine
what kind of soul they have?
By going to a
regressionist like you?
>>BACKMAN: Yes.
Almost always when I
guide a regression,
the client will learn,
are they Earth-based?
Are they interplanetary?
Are they angelic?
>>NOORY: Is there
a true difference?
>>BACKMAN: Yes, there's
a difference in what
I call gifts and skills.
So there's a difference in
often an interplanetary soul
and an angelic soul, because
they don't come to Earth over
and over and over.
They often have a harder
time being in body on Earth
and need to accept themselves
and understand why they're
different, why they're
unique, and understand
physical issues they might have,
allergies, dietary issues that
stem from being--
stem from not being Earth-based.
>>NOORY: If we have dreams
of different planets,
does that mean we may have
been an interplanetary soul?
>>BACKMAN: Yes,
that does mean that.
And often, since
you're asking that,
often when I meet a new client
and before I guide regression,
the client says things to
me during the interview.
The client may say, if they're
interplanetary, they may say,
Linda, as a child, every time it
was night time, even as a three
and a four and a
five-year-old child,
I would stare out the
window at the night sky
and wish I was out there.
An Earth-based soul doesn't
usually tell me that.
>>NOORY: Linda, thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>BACKMAN: My pleasure, George.
It's been wonderful to
be here with you again.
>>NOORY: I don't know
what kind of soul I am,
but I suspect I'm an
interplanetary soul because I've
been fascinated all my life
with the stars in the heavens.
I may do a session one
day with Linda Backman
and find out for sure.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]